.TH gluster-block 8 "command line utility" " 26 Feb 2017" "Red Hat, Inc."
.PP


.SH NAME
gluster-block - Gluster Block Storage Console Manager (command line utility)
.PP


.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gluster-block
<\fBcreate|list|info|delete\fR>
<\fBvolname\fR[\fB/blockname\fR]>
[\fB<args>\fR]
[\fB--json*\fR]
.PP


.SH DESCRIPTION
The Gluster Block Storage Console Manager(\fBgluster-block\fR) is a CLI utility, which aims at making gluster backed block storage creation and maintenance as simple as possible.

Note that the gluster-blockd daemon is responsible for block management, hence the daemon must be running on all servers.
.PP


.SH COMMANDS
.SS
\fBcreate\fR <VOLNAME/NEW-BLOCKNAME> [ha <COUNT>] [auth <enable|disable>] [prealloc <full|no>] <HOST1[,HOST2,..]> <BYTES>
create block device.
.TP
[ha <COUNT>]
multipath requirement for high availability (default: 1)
.TP
[auth <enable|disable>]
authentication setting (default: disable)
.TP
[prealloc <full|no>]
"full" mode preallocates space by writing zeros to storage. (default: no)
.TP
<HOST1,[HOST2....]>
servers in the pool where targets will be exported.
.TP
<BYTES>
size in B|KiB|MiB|GiB|TiB|PiB ... (default: bytes)
.PP

.SS
\fBlist\fR <VOLNAME>
list available block devices.
.PP

.SS
\fBinfo\fR <VOLNAME/BLOCKNAME>
details about block device.
.PP

.SS
\fBdelete\fR <VOLNAME/BLOCKNAME> [force]
delete block device.
.PP

.SS
\fBmodify\fR <VOLNAME/BLOCKNAME> <auth enable|disable>
modify block device.
.PP

.SS
.BR help
show help message and exit.
.PP

.SS
.BR version
show version info and exit.
.PP

.SH SUPPORTED JSON-FORMATS
--json | --json-plain | --json-spaced | --json-pretty

.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
To create a block device of size 1GiB
.B # gluster-block create blockVol/sampleBlock ${HOST} 1GiB

To create a block device of size 1GiB with auth enable
.B # gluster-block create blockVol/sampleBlock auth enable ${HOST} 1GiB

To create a block device of size 1GiB, by preallocating storage with zero fill
.B # gluster-block create blockVol/sampleBlock prealloc full ${HOST} 1GiB

To create a block device of size 1GiB with multi-path(replica) 3
.B # gluster-block create blockVol/sampleBlock ha 3 ${HOST1},${HOST2},${HOST3} 1GiB

To create a block device of size 1GiB and expect response in json format
.B # gluster-block create blockVol/sampleBlock ${HOST} 1GiB --json

You can pass more no. of nodes than ha count, this will actually help create in recovering from
failures, incase creation of block fails on any of scheduled(always first in list) ha count nodes.
.B # gluster-block create blockVol/sampleBlock ha 3 ${HOST1},${HOST2},${HOST3},${HOST4},${HOST5} 1GiB

To disable auth on a block device
.B # gluster-block modify blockVol/sampleBlock auth disable

To enable auth on a block device
.B # gluster-block modify blockVol/sampleBlock auth enable

To list available block devices
.B # gluster-block list blockVol

To get details of a block device
.B # gluster-block info blockVol/sampleBlock

To delete a block device
.B # gluster-block delete blockVol/sampleBlock
.fi
.PP

.SH FILES
/var/log/gluster-block/*
.br
/var/run/gluster-block.socket
.br
/var/run/gluster-block.lock
.br
/etc/sysconfig/gluster-blockd-config
.PP


.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs via gluster-devel <gluster-devel@gluster.org
.br
or <https://github.com/gluster/gluster-block/issues>


.SH AUTHOR
Prasanna Kumar Kalever <prasanna.kalever@redhat.com>

.SH THANKS
Vijay Bellur <vbellur@redhat.com>
.br
Pranith Kumar Karampuri <pkarampu@redhat.com>



.SH SEE ALSO
.nf
\fBgluster-blockd\fR(8), \fBtargetcli\fR(8), \fBtcmu-runner\fR(8), \fBglusterfs\fR(8), \fBglusterd\fR(8), \fBgluster\fR(8)
.fi
.PP


.SH COPYRIGHT
.nf
Copyright (c) 2016 Red Hat, Inc. <http://www.redhat.com>
.PP
